Add java server instrumentation instructions (#464)
signalfx/splunk-otel-java: docs/server-instructions.md

# Add the JVM agent to Java servers

The following sections show how to add the path to the Splunk OTel agent for Java using the [supported servers](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/main/docs/supported-libraries.md#application-servers).

> ## JBoss EAP / WildFly

Reviewer: Can we link to the official docs for configuring these servers with a javaagent or JVM parameter, as well?

Author: Most servers lack simple docs on adding JVM parameters, and they tend to change between versions. Even when they do have docs, they present instructions that are either too generic or too difficult to follow. With this list, we're actually providing some added value.

Add the `javaagent` argument to the `standalone` configuration file:

- On Linux and macOS, add the following line at the end of the `standalone.conf` file:
   ```
   JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```
- On Windows, dd the following line at the end of the `standalone.conf.bat` file:
   ```
   set "JAVA_OPTS=%JAVA_OPTS% -javaagent:<Drive>:\path\to\splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```

## Jetty

> Configure the path to the JVM agent either in `start.ini` or in `jetty.sh`:

Reviewer 2: Jetty documentation https://www.eclipse.org/jetty/documentation/jetty-9/index.html#quickstart-running-jetty uses `java -jar start.jar`. As does documentation for jetty 10 https://www.eclipse.org/jetty/documentation/jetty-10/operations-guide/index.html#og-start I think mentioning `jetty.sh` is ok. Additionally should also mention what to do when using `java -jar start.jar`. `start.ini` part should be deemphasized (or removed) using language that suggest to use it only when user already has other jvm arguments there.

Author: What would the command look like? `java -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar -jar <jetty_home>/start.jar` ?

Reviewer 2: I would drop `<jetty_home>/` jetty doc also has just `java -jar start.jar`

- In the `start.ini` file, add the `javaagent` argument right below the `--exec` option:
   ```
   #===========================================================
   # Sample Jetty start.ini file
   #-----------------------------------------------------------
   --exec
   -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar

>    -Xmx512m

Reviewer 3: I'd remove the extra `-Xmx` because people will just copy/paste it and/or think it's desirable. 🤓

   ...
   ```

> -  In the `jetty.sh` file, add the `javaagent` argument inside `:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  In the `jetty.sh` file, add the `-javaagent` argument `:
```

   ```

>    JAVA_OPTIONS="${JAVA_OPTIONS} -javaagent\:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   JAVA_OPTIONS="${JAVA_OPTIONS} -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
```
I tried it out, with the extra backslash it actually fails with `Unrecognized option: -javaagent\:/Users/..`

   ```

## Glassfish / Payara

Add the path to the JVM agent to the settings using the `asadmin` command-line tool:

- On Linux, enter the following command:
   ```

>    <server_install_dir>/bin/asadmin create-jvm-options "-javaagent\:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar" 

Reviewer 2: Verified that here `\:` is required. Looking at the examples in https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E26576_01/doc.312/e24938/create-jvm-options.htm#GSRFM00042 i suspect that for windows colon also needs to be escaped and backslash also

   ```
- On Windows, enter the following command:
   ```
   <server_install_dir>\bin\asadmin.bat create-jvm-options '-javaagent:<Drive>:\path\to\splunk-otel-javaagent.jar'
   ```

> You can also instrument your application from the Admin Console:

Reviewer 2: Perhaps instead of `instrument your application` say that you can also add jvm arguments or add JVM agent

1. Open the GlassFish Admin Console at http://localhost:4848
2. Go to **Configurations > server-config > JVM Settings**.
3. Select **JVM Options** and click **Add JVM Option**.
4. In the blank field, enter the path to `splunk-otel-javaagent.jar`:

   `-javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar`

5. Click **Save** and restart the GlassFish server.

> Tip: Check that the `domain.xml` file in your domain directory contains a `<jmv-options>` entry for the agent.

## Tomcat / TomEE

Add the path to the JVM agent to your Tomcat/TomEE startup script:

- On Linux, add the following line to `<tomcat_home>/bin/setenv.sh`:
   ```
   CATALINA_OPTS="$CATALINA_OPTS -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```

> - On Windows, add the following line to `%CATALINA_BASE%\bin\setenv.bat`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On Windows, add the following line to ``<tomcat_home>\bin\setenv.bat`:
```
Using env variables would be ok also as long as we are consistently using them everywhere

   ```
   set CATALINA_OPTS=%CATALINA_OPTS% -javaagent:"<Drive>:\path\to\splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```

## Weblogic

> Add the path to the JVM agent to the `startWebLogic` file of your administration server:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the path to the JVM agent to your Weblogic domain startup script:
```

> - On Linux and macOS, add the following line to the `bin/startWebLogic.sh` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On Linux and macOS, add the following line to the `<domain_home>bin/startWebLogic.sh` file:
```

   ```
   export JAVA_OPTIONS="$JAVA_OPTIONS -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```

> - On Windows, add the following line to the `<install_dir>/<config>/<domain_name>/startWebLogic.cmd` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On Windows, add the following line to the `<domain_home>\bin\startWebLogic.cmd` file:
```

   ```
   set JAVA_OPTIONS=%JAVA_OPTIONS% -javaagent:"<Drive>:\path\to\splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```

> > For managed server instances, add the `javaagent` argument using the admin console.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> For managed server instances, add the `-javaagent` argument using the admin console.
```

## Websphere Liberty Profile

Add the path to the JVM agent to the `jvm.options` file:

- Open the `jvm.options` file:

>    - For a single server, open the server configuration `${server.config.dir}/jvm.options`.

Reviewer 2: as this file doesn't exist by default it might be better to ask user to create it instead of opening
same applies to server wide configuration, note that `etc` directory needs to be create also

# Add the JVM agent to Java servers

The following sections show how to add the path to the Splunk OTel agent for Java using the [supported servers](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/main/docs/supported-libraries.md#application-servers).

## JBoss EAP / WildFly

Add the `javaagent` argument to the `standalone` configuration file:

- On Linux and macOS, add the following line at the end of the `standalone.conf` file:
   ```
   JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```

> - On Windows, dd the following line at the end of the `standalone.conf.bat` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On Windows, add the following line at the end of the `standalone.conf.bat` file:
```

   ```
   set "JAVA_OPTS=%JAVA_OPTS% -javaagent:<Drive>:\path\to\splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```

## Jetty

Add the path to the JVM agent using the `-javaagent` argument:

```
java -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar -jar start.jar
```

> Alternatively, depending on how you define JVM arguments, you can edit your `jetty.sh` or `start.ini` files, :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively you can add `-javaagent` argument to your `jetty.sh` or `start.ini` files:
```

> -  If you use the `jetty.sh` file, add the `javaagent` argument:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  If you use the `jetty.sh` file to start jetty, add the following line to `<jetty_home>/bin/jetty.sh`:
```

   ```
   JAVA_OPTIONS="${JAVA_OPTIONS} -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```

> - If you use the `start.ini` file, add the `javaagent` argument right below the `--exec` option:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you use the `start.ini` file to define JVM arguments, add the `javaagent` argument right below the `--exec` option:
```

   ```
   #===========================================================
   # Sample Jetty start.ini file
   #-----------------------------------------------------------
   --exec
   -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar
   ```

## Glassfish / Payara

Add the path to the JVM agent to the settings using the `asadmin` command-line tool:

- On Linux, enter the following command:
   ```
   <server_install_dir>/bin/asadmin create-jvm-options "-javaagent\:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar" 
   ```
- On Windows, enter the following command:
   ```

>    <server_install_dir>\bin\asadmin.bat create-jvm-options '-javaagent:<Drive>:\path\to\splunk-otel-javaagent.jar'

Reviewer 2: Would it be possible to verify this on windows? Based on the example in https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E26576_01/doc.312/e24938/create-jvm-options.htm#GSRFM00042 I suspect that it should really be `'-javaagent\:<Drive>\:\\path\\to\\splunk-otel-javaagent.jar'` Perhaps there should also be a note that `:` and `\` need to be escaped

Author: From https://stackoverflow.com/a/28040996

> The asadmin manual page says the following:
> 
> For the Windows operating system in single mode, a backslash is required to escape the colon and the backslash characters.
> 
> So try the following:
> 
> -javaagent:C\:\\AppServerAgent\\javaagent.jar

   ```

You can also add the `-javaagent` argument from the Admin Console:

1. Open the GlassFish Admin Console at http://localhost:4848
2. Go to **Configurations > server-config > JVM Settings**.
3. Select **JVM Options** and click **Add JVM Option**.
4. In the blank field, enter the path to `splunk-otel-javaagent.jar`:

   `-javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar`

5. Click **Save** and restart the GlassFish server.

> Tip: Check that the `domain.xml` file in your domain directory contains a `<jmv-options>` entry for the agent.

## Tomcat / TomEE

Add the path to the JVM agent to your Tomcat/TomEE startup script:

- On Linux, add the following line to `<tomcat_home>/bin/setenv.sh`:
   ```
   CATALINA_OPTS="$CATALINA_OPTS -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```
- On Windows, add the following line to `<tomcat_home>\bin\setenv.bat`:
   ```
   set CATALINA_OPTS=%CATALINA_OPTS% -javaagent:"<Drive>:\path\to\splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```

## Weblogic

Add the path to the JVM agent to your Weblogic domain startup script:

> - On Linux and macOS, add the following line to the `<domain_home>bin/startWebLogic.sh` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On Linux and macOS, add the following line to the `<domain_home>/bin/startWebLogic.sh` file:
```

   ```
   export JAVA_OPTIONS="$JAVA_OPTIONS -javaagent:/path/to/splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```
- On Windows, add the following line to the `<domain_home>\bin\startWebLogic.cmd` file:
   ```
   set JAVA_OPTIONS=%JAVA_OPTIONS% -javaagent:"<Drive>:\path\to\splunk-otel-javaagent.jar"
   ```

> For managed server instances, add the `-javaagent` argument using the admin console.

## Websphere Liberty Profile

Add the path to the JVM agent to the `jvm.options` file:

> - Open the `jvm.options` file:

Reviewer 2: Single and all servers should use the same wording. Perhaps create if it does not exist could be somehow combined with ` Open the jvm.options file:` line and single/all line `For all servers use ${wlp.install.dir}/etc/jvm.options` would just tell the path to `jvm.options`
